I was the 2nd squad commander of the 8th company of the 45th regiment. On April 17, 1915, we went to Akbaş Port with our regiment. We spent April 18 in the olive grove around Maydos. On April 2, the whole division gathered in Soğanlı Creek. At 07:00 that day, Division Commander Miralay Şükrü Bey called the regiment commanders and battalion commanders to his side and gave the necessary orders. Our battalion commander İsmail Hakkı Bey told us that the enemy's strength has been broken by the fires that have been made since two days, the enemy will be attacked with the support of Allah tonight, the regiments will act side by side and the battalions will act in deep arm order, the weapons will not be loaded and the bags will be taken out, when the order is given, we will attach the bayonet and unite with the hunter line ahead and attack the enemy. Having prepared the soldiers in accordance with this order, we moved forward at 09:00. When we came behind a small rafter, lead and shrapnel grains began to make their presence felt. The enemy had taken Certik Hill under heavy artillery fire. The order to "get down" was given. At that interval, the battalion commander came and said that we would attack after attaching bayonets and merging with the fighter line ahead. 1st team stepped forward. I was following them with the 2nd team. We took two trenches on our front, trampling many enemy victims in each leap. Finally, when I had the soldiers take positions for the last time, an artillery shell, whose type I could not identify, hit the lower part of my arm, seriously injuring me. I handed the team over to my sergeant. Two noble-hearted soldiers took me in their arms to the place of bandaging. I was immediately sent to Kilitbahir Hospital after my arm was bandaged to stop the bleeding in Soğanlı creek. When I opened my eyes, I found myself in bed without an arm. I was consoled by thinking that I had become this way for the country. From there I was sent to Istanbul. I was treated with care and compassion at Zeynep Kamil Hospital in Üsküdar, at Moda and Vitali Mansion Officer Rehabilitation Center. When I felt the old strength in my body, my conscience ordered me not to be idle. I asked for my appointment to a service. I was appointed to the aide of the Chief of the General Staff. I am there now. I do not feel pity for my arm, which was sacrificed for my great Turkish Nation and my holy homeland.

15th Division 45th Regiment
2nd Battalion, 8th Company
Lieutenant Mehmet Dursun
