Dear Mother,

Glorious Turkish mother who gave birth to four soldiers!

I received your letter of advice while sitting by the pear tree, by the stream that runs through a beautiful green plain like the plain of Divrin. It reinforced my soul, which was enchanted in the greenery of nature, once again. I read, I learned great lessons as I read. I read it again. I am glad to be in such a beautiful and sacred duty. I opened my eyes. I looked into the distance. The bowing of the green crops, unable to resist the wind, seemed to me to greet the letter from my mother. All of them were leaning towards me and congratulating me saying I received a letter from my mother.

I looked right a little; magnificent pine trees at the foot of a beautiful slope were giving me good news with a voice peculiar to them. I turned my eyes to the left; The creek, which was flowing, was laughing, playing, foaming because of the letter I received from my mother... I raised my head, looked at the leaves of the tree in which I was resting; they all wanted to tell me that they were participating in my joy with their dances. I looked at another branch; A beautiful nightingale was giving me good news sweetly and wanted to show its sympathy by opening its thin beaks.

At this moment the maid said:
-“Sir, your tea, here, drink it”.
-“All right,” I said. I took it and looked, tea with milk...
-“Mustafa, where did you get this milk from?” I said.
-“Sir, there is a flock that scurries to the side of the stream”.
-“Yeah, how beautiful”.
-“Here I bought it from its shepherd for 10 coins”.

Dear Mother, 

100 dirhams of milk without water for 10 coins. The sheep is just milked, I bought it and drank it.

But at the same time, I'm thinking… Thanks to my mother, I am able to drink milk like this with the money she sent, but my mother is not going to drink it? Why doesn't Şevket drink, I said.

But the nightingale above was shouting: “Your mother should curse to her fate, what should we do? If he was a man too; she would smell these flowers, drink this milk, see the prostrations of these crops, examine the quiet flow of the stream and hear the sounds it makes.”

Şevket shouldn’t worry; he will see, maybe he will see better ones. 

But mommy, don't be upset. I will definitely bring you here, yes. And I will show you this natural view. Şevket, Hilmi will see, thanks to you.

On a dark green side of that beautiful meadow, my soldiers doing the laundry lined up in rows. Someone with a good voice was reciting the azan.
Oh my God, how beautiful was his voice in this plain. Even the nightingale was silent, even the crops stopped moving, even the stream was silent. Everyone, everything, all beings were listening to him, that holy voice. Azan was over. I also performed an ablution from that stream. We prayed in congregation. I knelt on that beautiful meadow. I forgot the messy pomp of the whole world. I raised my hands, stared up, opened my mouth and said:

"O great god of the Turks! O you, this bird who sings, that wandering and bleating sheep, that prostrate green crop and grass, those majestic mountains! You gave all these to the Turks. Leave it to the Turks again; Because such beautiful places, is reserved for the Turks who bless and recognize the greatness of you.”

 "O my Lord! All the wishes of these heroic soldiers are to introduce your name to the British and the French. Grant this honorable wish and sharpen the bayonets of us soldiers who pray to you in such a beautiful and quiet place, trembling in your presence. You have already destroyed our enemies, destroy them completely!” I prayed and stood up. A person as happy as me, as proud as me could not be imagined.
Mommy, your son Halit is in beautiful places like me. This is the most beautiful place in the world. Only thing is, weddings do not happen in these countries. I hope the enemy will come with soldiers and they will take us away, we'll have a wedding, won't we? I wrote a letter to Kadir.

Mommy, never give people things like bills in the house. And if they ask, say we don't know. Take the bag, put it in the chest. I told you once, this is the world; but don't worry. If the man at the court house didn’t want to give the money, he wouldn’t have. You know how we got it; it takes time. Dear mother, I don’t want clothes or anything; I have money. God bless you.

April 4th, 1331 [ April 17th1915 ]
Your son
Hasan Ethem
