Notes of the senior non-commissioned officer of the reconnaissance team of the 253 Infantry Regiment of Perekop Ivan Kucherenko 

First day of mobilization and five months in the war

All is quiet and calm in the village, but who could think that so soon there would be a storm, a thunderstorm over all the world, and that each of us would have to leave for a while or even forever his own house, father, mother and for some a wife and a child, and proudly stand with the gun in the hands to protect the Tsar and our Homeland. 

But work in the village was in progress, someone was bringing the rye from the fields. That person had already threshed the grain, transported it to the nearest place to sell, and in the fields and in the countryside started an extraordinary commotion: foremen were running from the yard to the yard, gathering all together to our village government, also I have come.

“What's up??” Peasants were asking each other, but nobody answered, because nobody knew what had happened, how could we have known, it seemed as if our village had been set on fire.

Then the village chief came out to the porch and signaled with his hand that we should be silent. We all have fallen silent, opened our ears to hear the speech of our chief, who in his turn did not make us wait a long time and started to speak.

“Here's the thing, guys! An enemy has been found, who is attacking now our Mother Russia and our Father Tsar, who need our help. Now Germany is our enemy. The Germans: resounded through the crowd, damn them, it's never enough for them, look, how they benefited in Russia! Where there is a land, it is always occupied by Germans, and now they want to fight”.
 
“Yes, it is always like this”, - the black bearded man said, - “When you let a pig sit at the table, it will lay its hooves on that table. As well as Germans, they are living here, have it all, but they are always ready to drown us in the spoon of water”.

“Hush! Hush up!” - there was a voice of the сhief, - “So, guys, not to waste any time for making lists, all of you, who feel healthy and fit to serve our Homeland, must come at 2 pm on 18th of July to the presence of the Military Chief Mr. Aleshka. I would give you an advice to take 2 pairs of underwear and the rest will be given to you, but do it as soon as possible, and I will organize carriages for you”. 

“No need, Ivan Vasilyevich, we will come on our feet”, - the crowd of people responded, diverging. They all forgot their field work, and lamps were flashing in all their houses in front of the icon of saints. 

Good Lord, how many tears were shed when we were leaving. My five-year-old daughter was in my arms cuddling me and she said: “Daddy, why are you going to leave us, who will make money for us to buy bread”, - and she grasped my neck with her thin arms and tucked in my side. I heard the sound of her young heart, and she began to kiss my cheek. I could not answer with anything to her questions, but also I could not stop the tears. 

“Baby, I’ll be back soon”.

In all yards words of farewell and curses to Germans were just heard. At that time my parents came. My father blessed me with a cross, which he put upon my neck, and my mother said to me, crying with tears: 
“My dear son, you go to death, I hope that my mother’s tears will save you from the enemy’s bullets”. 

I heard nothing else, and I cannot remember what I have done, because my heart sank, and I hurried up to go away just not to hear women crying. 

The horses were harnessed, my wife was in a hurry to put all my stuff in the basket, but the other door was opened and my grandfather, who was 97 years old entered. 

“God bless you, dear children”, - said my grandfather and groaning, sat beside me, - “Well, Ivan, are you leaving?”
“Yes, granny, I go to beat these goddamned Germans”.
“Yes... It’s good, would do well to cut off the wings of these cursed tyrants, otherwise they would stretch them too wide”. And the grandfather looked at the girl which was sitting in my arms all that time and whispered something.
